# Gwin Protocol

Gwin Protocol allows users to either “cool off” or “heat up” a crypto asset to adjust their exposure to suit their risk profile. The user simply selects their desired “heat” level and deposits to the protocol.

The process is drastically simplified and understandable as compared to complicated options markets and other alternatives. The protocol has a single pool of the deposited asset, currently ETH, that brings together risk seekers with their more conservative counterparts and creates a way for them to increase or decrease their ETH exposure, relative to USD, without a specific counterparty, order book, or contract length.

Gwin effectively synthesizes ETH/USD with 1.5x leverage in an automated, permissionless manner. But perhaps even more importantly, that process simultaneously serves to create Cooled ETH, i.e. exposure to ETH with 50% less volatility relative to USD, while still retaining significant upside potential. The reason that this is so exciting is that ETH, arguably the premier crypto asset, has twice the volatility of Cooled ETH.

That means Cooled ETH achieves a new level of coveted crypto price stability while remaining entirely blockchain native—even as compared to Dai, which has problematic ties to the US Dollar. There are endless potential applications for this in DeFi, including the present industry desire to collateralize stablecoins with blockchain native assets to avoid regulatory threats. As an example, the derivatives market is often estimated to be ten times the size of the total world gross domestic product (GDP). Gwin Protocol offers a compelling answer that can serve these sizable financial interests now emerging in an evolved form within the blockchain while synthesizing price stability as well. Additionally, Cooled ETH could attract countless sidelined investors who want to get crypto exposure, but avoid it for now because of the unacceptable volatility.
